All right, everybody ready for
the greatest of them all, rust?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, okay, so
I'm gonna do the exact same thing.
I'm gonna go to projects,
I'm gonna make my dir rust.
We're going to keep these three dirs for
as we're building the CLI program as well.
We're just kinda pre-setting them up.
And of course, I'm gonna go into the rust
projects and I'm gonna go cargo init.
This'll just create it for you,
it also git inits for you.
Beautiful, wonderful, fantastic.
And let's open up your favorite editor,
which should be them, but
we'll find out what happens.
All right, so there we go.
We have our main function, awesome.
So let's do the exact same
thing that we've been doing.
I'm gonna open up my previous project,
I'm gonna yank that line and
I'm gonna go back here.
There we go, awesome.
And so now let's start the conversion
from typescript into rust.
So rust is just slightly different, right?
They have an fn and
instead of function, okay,
that's pretty straight forward instead
of colon, well, dash, arrow, why?
I don't know.
Now the return types are a little
bit more complicated.
For this specific one,
we have a string in the code.
What do you think happens when
you compile a program and
you have a string in the code?
If you had to do this yourself,
what would you do with that string?
Well, you would probably have to store
that literal string in the binary,
correct, because it has to be there.
So there is a special
little thing called static.
I know, this is just so great.
Really, what I'm saying is, hey,
I'm gonna pass back to you a reference
to something that lives forever.
So this is a static string reference.
This is something that lives forever,
and that's what it is.
So this is our only time we're
gonna be touching a lifetime,
but it's the easiest lifetime of them all,
the static lifetime, it lives forever.
And then I'm just gonna simply
convert it into that, and there we go.
We are now referring to the string that's
been compiled into your binary and
we're gonna return it to you.
And so keeping up with kind
of our procedural way,
we're going to do the exact same thing.
We are going to create a parse
line function that takes a line.
It's going to split it, and
then it's going to return out its value.
And we can kinda handle it
however we want to, but lastly,
you will notice something right away.
Hold on, I'm gonna go like this.
I wanna keep on going with this.
Again, you'll notice that I
have an underline here, why?
It wants that delicious snake case,
the greatest casing of all time, why?
Just does, all right, and so
let's have the exact same thing
that we did in the previous one.
We'll have a point again,
even though it's kind of a terrible name.
And we'll have an x: i32,
y: i32, all right?
So in rust land i32,
32 bit number and it's signed,
meaning that it can be both negative and
positive.
A u means unsigned,
it can only be positive.
Just in case you don't know those things,
there we go.
We are gonna return a point and
we're gonna take in a line, correct.
That is also gonna be part of that
delicious static lifetime, right?
Because we're already
specifying it right here,
we're going to take in the exact
same thing right here.
We technically,
I believe we don't actually have to.
We can also just say, hey,
it's a reference string,
I don't know how long it lives but
it lives as long as my function, right?
So we can also say that too,
so there we go.
So now let's start
breaking apart this line.
So there are some pretty
great tools in rust.
One of them is split_once.
What this effectively does is it's gonna
return an option of string string.
So if this character exists that I'm going
to split upon, it will return it to me,
if it doesn't,
it's not going to return me anything.
So this is actually
kind of a cool concept.
So let's go like this,
let's put the delimiter space.
And let's go like this, let a,
right, just for now, whatever.
What is it?
It's an option string string.
So what can we do with this?
Well, we can actually do
some pretty neat things.
So one thing we could do right
here is instead of using
a hard value point to return,
we could use an option to return.
That would be nice because that
means I can do a .map on this.
If there is a value there, then I can
mutate that value into what I want.
If there is no value there,
then I will simply have to say, hey,
sorry it doesn't work out.
But for our sake, we're just gonna kinda
keep it a little bit different cuz we're
gonna run into some more
problems here shortly.
So we'll just unwrap or we'll expect,
right, cuz expect tells us, hey,
if this thing doesn't work out,
we have to halt the program, right?
And that would make sense.
We're doing test input.
Let's just do that here and let's go like
this, expect must contain a whitespace,
right, makes total sense,
we would expect that.
Now here's the best part about doing that,
remember that whole sweet pattern
matching that we have available in rust?
Well, it extends here, so
I'd like this dir and the mount,
it looks wonderful, you can see
amount is a string, dir is a string.
It has tuples in this language which
a tuple is simply something that looks
like this, right, I can go String, String,
that means there's two values and
they're both capital S strings.
Obviously a reference to a string just
points to a string, it's just a smaller
type, and it allows you to create
these things without copying.
So that just means,
I didn't copy the string,
I'm just simply referring to the string.
All right, so we have these but
we do have one more problem,
which is now we have to convert
the amount from a string into an integer.
Now remember rust is Mr Safety, right, so
that means when we do this what
do you think's gonna happen?
Come on, it's gonna throw an error, right?
It's gonna be like, there's an error here,
so we should get a result out of this.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
say my type, I expect an i32.
And I'm gonna go like this,
string parse and
now I need to hand it something, amount.
So it can tell what it needs to parse
to because I have an identified type
right here.
There's other ways you can do that,
I believe parse also takes what they
refer to as the turbo fish operator,
which will do the exact same thing.
And so now you can see I am
a result of i32 or a ParseIntError.
That makes sense, right, cuz we don't
know what it's going to be quite yet.
Of course, again, since we are making
a little test program, let's use expect,
and just say, second arg, my goodness,
must be an integer, right?
That just totally makes sense.
There we go, it's probably the actually
the nicest way to do this program,
cuz you do want these hard errors if
you're expecting something like that.
All right, there we go.
So now we have, did I forget a semicolon?
There we go.
Rust requires semicolons.
All right, so now we have the direction,
we have the amount,
we just simply need to return the points.
I will say one cool thing about rust,
s that if you do have x = to 0 and y = 1,
and these things are backwards,
you can return a point with x and
y and it correctly assigns them
to what they are expected to be.
So it behaves what I
consider more normally.
Let's get rid of that,
exact same code as before.
In fact, it's such similar code,
I can technically jump back here and
I could just copy all of this and
paste it in and it's gonna, oopsies,
I didn't actually cut and paste.
It will do almost identically
the same thing here.
Hold on, let me go.
There we go, look at that, just so you can
see how similar these two languages are.
Just simply make it
obviously from one to two.
It also does not like
parentheses around things, and
then we just have to change our amount.
So I'm just gonna go Point, and
go x = amount, y = 0, right?
Beautiful, right,
that was actually pretty straightforward.
We can do the exact same thing here, call
this thing y, make it a negative sign.
For some odd reason erased it,
X0, do that, beautiful,
reduce that down,
take away the parentheses.
And of course take that paste it in,
go here, erase that, there we go.
It's like the exact same code, right?
This looks the same, feels the same.
We're not dealing with errors,
we're hard halting our program.
If we're wrong,
everything else should be the same.
So now we can do the exact same thing down
here, we can go like this, get input.
We have our nice input right now.
From there, we can do a lines.
Lines will simply do that whole
splitting on the new line for you.
It's actually a really
convenient function.
I love the fact that they
just have this on here,
cuz we all split new line all the time.
Why not just give us a function to do it.
And it feels like it
makes it pretty readable.
Another thing is rust really
prefers you to put the period on
the new line like this.
If you were to break it down,
it's just what they like.
So now I can do something like this,
which I think is pretty cool.
I can now take a map and do a nice x and
just simply do this line right here,
parse line.
We can do this even better soon, but
we're not gonna do it better right now.
And just take a parse line and do an x.
We can even more so
just take parsed line, pass it in.
Fantastic, this is looking great, right?
We're just saying hey, parse this line.
And so
now our next item should be a point.
And so just like with JavaScript,
they have reduce,
rust has fold,
fold is gonna be the exact same thing.
So let's use that same method,
I'm gonna have to first start off with
my initial value of, of course, 00.
And from there, I need a function
which is gonna be a mutable,
cuz remember we're gonna
mutate this thing coming in,
our mutable accumulator, and
then of course our point.
Fantastic, did I make this not,
I was just hoping you could do that.
Sometimes I do things out there and I just
really hope that it's gonna work out and
let's make sure we always return acc.
This is fantastic, and what are you trying
to say, I expected this but found that,
okay, calm down.
The reason why it's saying that, is that,
what is the return type of main?
Nothing, right, it's the empty object.
So something about rust, and people love
this, I hate this, and you're gonna see me
not use it at all is implicit returns,
everything is an expression.
If you do an if statement and
that's the last line of your function,
whatever it returns or
whatever is the final value in that if
statement is the thing that's returned.
So, if you use a semicolon at the end,
the semicolon delimits the end of
the expression and then an empty
thing is returned afterwards.
So, me personally, so if we just do this,
you'll notice that gets rid of the air and
you're like,
how did that get rid of the air?
It's because this thing was expecting me
to return nothing from this function.
And so now,
I'm preventing it from returning by adding
the semicolon at the end.
I don't like to have to look forward to
know if this is the return statement, so
I just don't use those.
That's my argument against it.
Hate me for it.
I bet Twitch chat is
just losing it right now.
All right, so let's just do this,
acc.x+=, my goodness,
that's like the third time I've done that,
+= point.x, there we go, exact same thing.
We've seen this how many times now?
X/y, why are you not auto completing?
I figured it'd be auto completing by now.
All right, there we go.
So we have this beautiful
thing right here.
And now we have that, so I can go
like this, let result equals this.
And I can do that beautiful thing.
And if I hit Edit,
it's not running, that's too bad,
rust analyzer will often put in ghost
texts into your editor to tell you what
type is on each line if you
set up your code like this.
For whatever reason,
it's not running, which is just sad.
But yeah, so that way you would see that
this thing was a reference to a string,
this was a iterator of reference to
string, this was an iterator of point,
this returns a single point, right?
So you can watch it do its
translation step by step,
which makes it super easy to
look through these things.
Now, hopefully, does this all make sense?
This looks just like JavaScript, right?
But let me tell you a reason why it's
better than what JavaScript does,
when you use .map on an array,
what actually happens?
Anyone, just throw out an answer.
>> Iterates through and
returns each element.
>> Yes, exactly, it iterates through and
returns each element into a new array.
Filter, what does filter do?
It goes through each elements,
does a test, and
returns a new array with those items.
This is not creating new arrays,
this is creating a new iterator,
that simply when the value comes in,
it performs the next step of the operation
and hands it off to the next place.
So that way no new temporary
allocations are created.
So if you do .map, .filter, .reduce,
you've just created three
temporary arrays in JavaScript.
You're creating nothing here.
So it is inherently gonna be more
performant just by simple standards
of it just does less.
Now, V8's super clever,
they might do something, I don't know.
But never discount V8, those
are the smartest people in the universe.
They made JavaScript into a fast language.
And so,
they could be doing something smart.
So if I erase this just for fun, you'll
notice what I'll get here is they'll say,
hey, let's see.
I'm gonna paste this back in for
a second and
just comment this thing out,
and go 9 up, and there you go.
You'll notice that it says, hey, this
thing's not used, you're not using it,
cuz we never did anything with
the iterator to consumes its.
So a fold consumes the value, cuz it takes
it from a something that's waiting to be
pulled on to the point of turning
it into a singular value.
So .ForEach goes through each item,
that's a consuming item.
You can also call .collect to turn
your iterator into say a vector.
And so that's kind of like how, it's
a small little difference with rust but
I think that that thing's fantastic.
It's just one of my favorite
parts of all time, right?
So let result = this,
fantastic, remove that.
Now we have this, if we look at result,
let's just jump up here,
look at it, it is Point, so awesome.
We have everything we need.
And now, here comes one of
the best worst parts about rust,
all at the exact same time,
let's print out the result.
All right, it says, hey, Point does
not implement the display trait,
therefore we cannot print it,
you're like, okay, but I'm smart.
I am gonna use the special print,
now this one is gonna, say, well,
it doesn't implement the debug trait,
so you can't do that.
But if you go up to your struct,
you can do,
remember that macro business I was talking
about, I'm gonna say, hey, you know what?
This struct is filled with
a bunch of very printable items.
I want you to just go derive
how to print this for me.
I don't wanna have to figure it out,
you just figure it out for me.
So it's gonna go through and
it's gonna do this.
Now, this is one of the most
powerful concepts out there,
right now it just kind of looks silly.
But when we do that, you'll notice,
boom, we can now print this thing out.
And so of course,
I don't know what to call this operator,
other than a guy smoking a pipe.
I don't know what that thing, I'm sure
they have some sandwich, the burger,
I think they call it a burger,
I don't know.
I like the guy smoking a pipe,
I think that's more funny.
All right, so
we're gonna do a little cargo run.
Of course, let's see, how do we do this,
where do we create this thing at?
Since this is just our main file inside of
our source, we can just call cargo run.
So there is a way to have
separate binaries, but
right now we're just doing this.
So, let's go cargo run, it should compile.
And what you'll see is that,
point has y, 10 and x has 15.
Now, remember I flipped x and y,
that's why they're backwards right here.
The bug procedurally goes
through your structure and
actually prints it out in order of fields.
Pretty cool, right?
You get that for free.
So, you get the speed of C++ without
me having to write that for loop and
all that fun.